Github Basics 

repositories
branches
commits
pull requests



Step 1. 
Create a Repository 

	In the upper right corner, next to your avatar, click and then select New repository.
	Name your repository "hello-world"
	Write a short description.
	Select Initialize this repository with a README.

	click create repository

Step 2.
Create a Branch 
	
	Go to your new repository "hello-world"
	Click the drop down at the top of the file list that says branch: master.
	Type a branch name, "readme-edits", into the new branch text box.
	Select the blue Create branch box or hit “Enter” on your keyboard.

Step 3.
Make and Commit Changes 

	Click the README.md file.
	Click the pencil icon in the upper right corner of the file view to edit.
	In the editor, write a bit about yourself.
	Write a commit message that describes your changes.
	Click Commit changes button.
Step 4.
Open a Pull Request


	Click the  Pull Request tab, then from the Pull Request page, click 	the green New pull request button.
	
	In the Example Comparisons box, select the branch you made, readme-	edits, to compare with master (the original).

	Look over your changes in the diffs on the Compare page, make sure 	they’re what you want to submit.
	
	When you’re satisfied that these are the changes you want to submit, 	click the big green Create Pull Request button.

	Give your pull request a title and write a brief description of your 	changes.

	When you’re done with your message, click Create pull request.


Step 5.
Merge your Pull Request

	Click the green Merge pull request button to merge the changes into 	master.

	Click Confirm merge.

	Go ahead and delete the branch, since its changes have been 		incorporated, with the Delete branch button in the purple box.



Step 6.
Celebrate!

	By completing this tutorial, you’ve learned to create a project and 	make a pull request on GitHub!

	Here’s what you accomplished in this tutorial:

	Created an open source repository
	Started and managed a new branch
	Changed a file and committed those changes to GitHub
	Opened and merged a Pull Request



Updates: 

	add GitHub terminal commands for each step


Resources: 
https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/

command line tutorial
https://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners








	
